\chapter{Equipment}

\section{Currency}

The world of Endless Horizon knows only one currency: Credit (C) for short.
Everything is payed for and with \emph{Credit}.

\section{Firearms}

This section lists all available firearms. Each firearm uses a magazine to feed
(be it internally or externally detachable) and fires some sort of cartridge.
Different firearms use different calibers, and for each caliber different
ammunition is available. Most of the time these are normal, hollow point (for
increased effectiveness non-armoured targets) and armor piercing (for more
damage against armour.

If a firearm is not listed in the section and your players wishes to use it,
just add them. This list is not exhaustive for the massive amounts of available
firearms in the world today.

\subsection{Magazines}

Many modern firearms (especially handguns, rifles) come with detachable bog
magazines. These are most commonly not interchangable between firearms unless
explicitely noted. Many firearms also come with internal magazines, for example
many pump action shotguns come with an internal magazine. Another good example
are revolvers.

Magazines are cheap to come by, and usually cost a tenth of the firearm they
belong to.

It is up to the player to manage, reload and maintain his magazines. It is not
possible to reload a magazine during combat but if spare bullets are available
magazines can be reloaded during downtime (travel with a shuttle etc.).

\subsection{Firing modes}

Most fire arms are single action (meaning one trigger pull fires one bullet).
But many also come with burst (one trigger pull fires multiple bullets) or
even fully automatic. The modes that are available depends on the firearm or
even sometimes on the model of a specific firearm.

The table lists modes with abbreviations. \textbf{S} stands for single shot,
\textbf{B} stands for burst (three round burst unless otherwise noted),
\textbf{A} stands for automatic, and \textbf{R} stands for repeating, meaning
that a mechanism has to be operated to cycle the next round into the chamber.

\subsection{Cartridges}

Each firearm fires a certain caliber. The bullet defines the damage that is
done, while the firearm describes additional characteristics such as effective
range, firemodes and more. Many cartridges come in different variations, such as
normal, sub sonic, tracer; and may come with different bullets (hollow point,
armor penetrating steel tip). Down below is a list of cartridges that are
currently available in \emph{Endless Horizons}:

\begin{center}
  \begin{tabular}{| l | l | l | l | l | l |}
    \hline
    \textbf{Cartridge}  & \textbf{Type}   & \textbf{Piercing} &
    \textbf{Bludgeoning} & \textbf{Cost}  & \textbf{Notes}        \\ \hline

    9x18    & Normal & 1d4  & 1d4  & 10 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class II \\ \hline
    \,      & AP     & 1d4  & 1d4  & 15 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class III \\ \hline
    \,      & HP     & 1d6  & 1d6  & 13 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class I \\ \hline
    9x19    & Normal & 1d6  & 1d6  & 15 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class II \\ \hline
    \,      & AP     & 1d6  & 1d8  & 20 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class III \\ \hline
    \,      & HP     & 1d8  & 1d8  & 20 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class II \\ \hline
    .40 ACP & Normal & 1d8  & 1d8  & 23 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class II, Subsonic \\ \hline
    \,      & AP     & 1d8  & 1d8  & 25 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class III \\ \hline
    \,      & HP     & 2d4  & 2d4  & 25 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class II, Subsonic \\ \hline
    4.6x30  & Normal & 2d4  & 2d4  & 40 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class III \\ \hline
    \,      & AP     & 2d4  & 2d4  & 60 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class IV \\ \hline
    \,      & HP     & 2d6  & 2d6  & 50 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class II \\ \hline
    5.7x28  & Normal & 2d4  & 2d4  & 40 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class III \\ \hline
    \,      & AP     & 2d4  & 2d4  & 60 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class IV \\ \hline
    \,      & HP     & 2d6  & 2d6  & 50 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class II \\ \hline
    9x21    & Normal & 2d4  & 2d4  & 40 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class III \\ \hline
    \,      & AP     & 2d4  & 2d4  & 60 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class IV \\ \hline
    \,      & HP     & 2d6  & 2d6  & 50 (50 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class II \\ \hline

  \end{tabular}
\end{center}

\begin{center}
  \begin{tabular}{| l | l | l | l | l | l |}
    \hline
    \textbf{Cartridge}  & \textbf{Type}   & \textbf{Piercing} &
    \textbf{Bludgeoning} & \textbf{Cost}  & \textbf{Notes}        \\ \hline

    7.62x39  & Normal  & 2d10  & 2d10  & 70 (30 Rnds.)  & Stopped by Class IV \\ \hline
    \,       & AP      & 2d10  & 2d20  & 120 (30 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class V \\ \hline
    5.56x45  & Normal  & 2d8   & 2d8   & 80 (30 Rnds.)  & Stopped by Class III \\ \hline
    \,       & AP      & 2d8   & 2d8   & 100 (30 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class IV \\ \hline
    \,       & HP      & 2d10  & 2d10  & 120 (30 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class III \\ \hline
    5.45x39  & Normal  & 2d8   & 2d8   & 70 (30 Rnds.)  & Stopped by Class III \\ \hline
    \,       & AP      & 2d8   & 2d8   & 90 (30 Rnds.)  & Stopped by Class IV \\ \hline
    \,       & HP      & 2d10  & 2d10  & 110 (30 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class III \\ \hline
    7.62x51  & Normal  & 2d10  & 2d10  & 100 (20 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class IV \\ \hline
    \,       & AP      & 2d10  & 2d10  & 130 (20 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class V \\ \hline
    \,       & HP      & 3d6   & 3d6   & 150 (20 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class IV \\ \hline
    7.62x54  & Normal  & 2d10  & 2d10  & 100 (20 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class IV \\ \hline
    \,       & AP      & 2d10  & 2d10  & 130 (20 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class V \\ \hline
    \,       & HP      & 3d6   & 3d6   & 150 (20 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class IV \\ \hline
    .50 BMG  & Normal  & 3d8   & 3d8   & 200 (10 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class VI \\ \hline
    \,       & AP      & 3d8   & 3d8   & 250 (10 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class VII \\ \hline
    \,       & HP      & 3d10  & 3d10  & 250 (10 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class VI \\ \hline
    \,       & HEI/AP  & 4d8   & 4d8   & 350 (10 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class VII \\ \hline
    12.7x108 & Normal  & 3d8   & 3d8   & 200 (10 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class VI \\ \hline
    \,       & AP      & 3d8   & 3d8   & 250 (10 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class VII \\ \hline
    \,       & HP      & 3d10  & 3d10  & 250 (10 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class VI \\ \hline
    \,       & HEI/AP  & 4d8   & 4d8   & 350 (10 Rnds.) & Stopped by Class VII \\ \hline

  \end{tabular}
\end{center}

\begin{center}
  \begin{tabular}{| l | l | l | l | l | l |}
    \hline
    \textbf{Cartridge}  & \textbf{Type}   & \textbf{Piercing} &
    \textbf{Bludgeoning} & \textbf{Cost}  & \textbf{Notes}        \\ \hline

    12G     & Buckshot & 4d4  & 1d4 & 20 (12 Shells) & Stopped by Class II \\ \hline
    \,      & Slug     & 3d4  & 2d4 & 25 (12 Shells) & Stopped by Class III \\ \hline
    \,      & Dart     & 3d4  & 3d4 & 30 (12 Shells) & Stopped by Class III \\ \hline

  \end{tabular}
\end{center}

\subsection{Pistols}

Pistols (or handguns) are compact weapons usually used in close quarter combat.
While most militaries use them as secondary weapons (alongside more powerful
rifles) many civilians or contractors rely on them mainly for their security
and defense.

Most pistols are semi automatic, feeding from a detachable box magazine.

\begin{center}
  \begin{tabular}{| l | l | l | l | l | l | l | l |}
    \hline
    \textbf{Name} & \textbf{Cartridge} & \textbf{Range} &
    \textbf{FM} & \textbf{Magazine} & \textbf{Recoil} &
    \textbf{Cost} & \textbf{Notes} \\ \hline

    Makarov PM & 9x18mm & 50m & S & 8  & 1 & 90  & \\ \hline
    Fort-12    & 9x18mm & 50m & S & 12 & 2 & 160 & \\ \hline
    MP-448     & 9x18mm & 50m & S & 12 & 2 & 160 & \\ \hline

  \end{tabular}
\end{center}

\begin{center}
  \begin{tabular}{| l | l | l | l | l | l | l | l |}
    \hline
    \textbf{Name} & \textbf{Cartridge} & \textbf{Range} &
    \textbf{FM} & \textbf{Magazine} & \textbf{Recoil} &
    \textbf{Cost} & \textbf{Notes} \\ \hline

    Walther P99  & 9x19mm & 60m & S  & 17 & 2 & 250 & \\ \hline
    Steyr M9 A1  & 9x19mm & 50m & S  & 17 & 2 & 230 & \\ \hline
    H&K VP9      & 9x19mm & 50m & S  & 15 & 2 & 200 & \\ \hline
    Glock 17     & 9x19mm & 50m & S  & 17 & 2 & 230 & \\ \hline
    Glock 18     & 9x19mm & 50m & SA & 33 & 3 & 500 & select fire \\ \hline
    SIG P226     & 9x19mm & 50m & S  & 15 & 2 & 210 & \\ \hline
    Beretta 92FS & 9x19mm & 50m & S  & 18 & 2 & 260 & \\ \hline
    MP-443       & 9x19mm & 50m & S  & 18 & 2 & 260 & \\ \hline

  \end{tabular}
\end{center}

\begin{center}
  \begin{tabular}{| l | l | l | l | l | l | l | l |}
    \hline
    \textbf{Name} & \textbf{Cartridge} & \textbf{Range} &
    \textbf{FM} & \textbf{Magazine} & \textbf{Recoil} &
    \textbf{Cost} & \textbf{Notes} \\ \hline

    M1911        & .45 ACP & 50m & S &  7 & 3  & 150 & \\ \hline
    H&K USP      & .45 ACP & 60m & S & 12 & 3  & 350 & \\ \hline
    Hi-Point JHP & .45 ACP & 50m & S & 10 & 3  & 250 & \\ \hline
    Glock 21     & .45 ACP & 50m & S & 13 & 3  & 250 & \\ \hline

  \end{tabular}
\end{center}
